README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/naviotech/navio-builder.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/naviotech/navio-builder)

Why I did this fork and what will happen here?
==============================================

This project was forked from Pynt.
[Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags/pynt)

I appreciate work made by [Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags) and will push any good parts of my changes to initial [rags/pynt](https://github.com/rags/pynt) repo.

Aim of this navio-builder project is to provide my clients with lightweight and easy to use python devops tool. 
I'm going to accumulate work done by [Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags) and other pynt contributers here. My own changes and new features will be implemented here and push as PR to original pynt repo.

A pynt of Python build. 
=======================

## Features

* Easy to learn.
* Build tasks are just python funtions.
* Manages dependencies between tasks.
* Automatically generates a command line interface.
* Rake style param passing to tasks
* Supports python 2.7 and python 3.x

## Todo Features

* Async tasks
* Additional tasks timing reporting 

## Installation


You can install navio-builder from the Python Package Index (PyPI) or from source.

Using pip

```bash
$ pip install navio-builder
```

Using easy_install

```bash
$ easy_install navio-builder
```

## Example


The build script is written in pure Python and navio-builder takes care of managing
any dependencies between tasks and generating a command line interface.

Writing build tasks is really simple, all you need to know is the @task decorator. Tasks are just regular Python 
functions marked with the ``@task()`` decorator. Dependencies are specified with ``@task()`` too. Tasks can be 
ignored with the ``@task(ignore=True)``. Disabling a task is an useful feature to have in situations where you have one
task that a lot of other tasks depend on and you want to quickly remove it from the dependency chains of all the 
dependent tasks. 

**build.py**
------------

```python

#!/usr/bin/python

import sys
from navio.builder import task

@task()
def clean():
    '''Clean build directory.'''
    print 'Cleaning build directory...'

@task(clean)
def html(target='.'):
    '''Generate HTML.'''
    print 'Generating HTML in directory "%s"' %  target

@task(clean, ignore=True)
def images():
    '''Prepare images.'''
    print 'Preparing images...'

@task(html,images)
def start_server(server='localhost', port = '80'):
    '''Start the server'''
    print 'Starting server at %s:%s' % (server, port)

@task(start_server) #Depends on task with all optional params
def stop_server():
    print 'Stopping server....'

@task()
def copy_file(src, dest):
    print 'Copying from %s to %s' % (src, dest)

@task()
def echo(*args,**kwargs):
    print args
    print kwargs
    
# Default task (if specified) is run when no task is specified in the command line
# make sure you define the variable __DEFAULT__ after the task is defined
# A good convention is to define it at the end of the module
# __DEFAULT__ is an optional member

__DEFAULT__=start_server
```

**Running navio-builder tasks**
-----------------------

The command line interface and help is automatically generated. Task descriptions
are extracted from function docstrings.

```bash
$ nb -h
usage: nb [-h] [-l] [-v] [-f file] [task [task ...]]

positional arguments:
  task                  perform specified task and all its dependencies

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -l, --list-tasks      List the tasks
  -v, --version         Display the version information
  -f file, --file file  Build file to read the tasks from. Default is
                        'build.py'
```

```bash
$ nb -l
Tasks in build file ./build.py:
  clean                       Clean build directory.
  copy_file                   
  echo                        
  html                        Generate HTML.
  images           [Ignored]  Prepare images.
  start_server     [Default]  Start the server
  stop_server                 

Powered by navio-builder - A Lightweight Python Build Tool.
```
          
navio-builder takes care of dependencies between tasks. In the following case start_server depends on clean, html and image generation (image task is ignored).

```bash
$ nb #Runs the default task start_server. It does exactly what "nb start_server" would do.
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "html" ]
Generating HTML in directory "."
[ example.py - Completed task "html" ]
[ example.py - Ignoring task "images" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "start_server" ]
Starting server at localhost:80
[ example.py - Completed task "start_server" ]
```

The first few characters of the task name is enough to execute the task, as long as the partial name is unambigious. You can specify multiple tasks to run in the commandline. Again the dependencies are taken taken care of.

```bash
$ nb cle ht cl
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "html" ]
Generating HTML in directory "."
[ example.py - Completed task "html" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
```

The 'html' task dependency 'clean' is run only once. But clean can be explicitly run again later.

nb tasks can accept parameters from commandline.

```bash
$ nb "copy_file[/path/to/foo, path_to_bar]"
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "copy_file" ]
Copying from /path/to/foo to path_to_bar
[ example.py - Completed task "copy_file" ]
```

nb can also accept keyword arguments.

```bash
$ nb start[port=8888]
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "html" ]
Generating HTML in directory "."
[ example.py - Completed task "html" ]
[ example.py - Ignoring task "images" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "start_server" ]
Starting server at localhost:8888
[ example.py - Completed task "start_server" ]
    
$ nb echo[hello,world,foo=bar,blah=123]
[ example.py - Starting task "echo" ]
('hello', 'world')
{'blah': '123', 'foo': 'bar'}
[ example.py - Completed task "echo" ]
```

**Organizing build scripts**
-----------------------------

You can break up your build files into modules and simple import them into your main build file.

```python
from deploy_tasks import *
from test_tasks import functional_tests, report_coverage
```

## Contributors/Contributing


* Raghunandan Rao - navio-builder is preceded by and forked from [pynt](https://github.com/rags/pynt), which was created by [Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags/pynt).
* Calum J. Eadie - pynt is preceded by and forked from [microbuild](https://github.com/CalumJEadie/microbuild), which was created by [Calum J. Eadie](https://github.com/CalumJEadie).


If you want to make changes the repo is at https://github.com/naviotech/navio-builder. You will need [pytest](http://www.pytest.org) to run the tests

```bash
$ ./b t
```

It will be great if you can raise a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests) once you are done.

If you find any bugs or need new features please raise a ticket in the [issues section](https://github.com/naviotech/navio-builder/issues) of the github repo.
    
## License

navio-builder is licensed under a [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

just enough changes to publish a fork to pypi

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/naviotech/navio-builder.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/naviotech/navio-builder)

Why I forked Peter Salnikov's fork and what will happen here?
==============================================
I'm making the library OS neutral again and vendorizing my patched version was creating management problems. 

I'll make best efforts to keep `navio-builder-win` up to date with `navio-builder` because that is currently
the best and best maintained fork of `microbuild`.

The convenience import of `sh` means Windows users can't import `navio`. The `sh` maintainers as a design goal
want that library to blow up if imported on Windows, so I can't fix the `sh` library.

This fork will allow you to use `sh` as a convenience import, but I don't recommend it. Import `sh` directly
and not via `navio`

Why I did this fork and what will happen here?
==============================================

This project was forked from Pynt.
[Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags/pynt)

I appreciate work made by [Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags) and will push any good parts of my changes to initial [rags/pynt](https://github.com/rags/pynt) repo.

Aim of this navio-builder project is to provide my clients with lightweight and easy to use python devops tool. 
I'm going to accumulate work done by [Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags) and other pynt contributers here. My own changes and new features will be implemented here and push as PR to original pynt repo.

A pynt of Python build. 
=======================

## Features

* Easy to learn.
* Build tasks are just python funtions.
* Manages dependencies between tasks.
* Automatically generates a command line interface.
* Rake style param passing to tasks
* Supports python 2.7 and python 3.x

## Todo Features

* Async tasks
* Additional tasks timing reporting 

## Installation


You can install navio-builder from the Python Package Index (PyPI) or from source.

Using pip

```bash
$ pip install navio-builder
```

Using easy_install

```bash
$ easy_install navio-builder
```

## Example


The build script is written in pure Python and navio-builder takes care of managing
any dependencies between tasks and generating a command line interface.

Writing build tasks is really simple, all you need to know is the @task decorator. Tasks are just regular Python 
functions marked with the ``@task()`` decorator. Dependencies are specified with ``@task()`` too. Tasks can be 
ignored with the ``@task(ignore=True)``. Disabling a task is an useful feature to have in situations where you have one
task that a lot of other tasks depend on and you want to quickly remove it from the dependency chains of all the 
dependent tasks. 

**build.py**
------------

```python

#!/usr/bin/python

import sys
from navio.builder import task

@task()
def clean():
    '''Clean build directory.'''
    print 'Cleaning build directory...'

@task(clean)
def html(target='.'):
    '''Generate HTML.'''
    print 'Generating HTML in directory "%s"' %  target

@task(clean, ignore=True)
def images():
    '''Prepare images.'''
    print 'Preparing images...'

@task(html,images)
def start_server(server='localhost', port = '80'):
    '''Start the server'''
    print 'Starting server at %s:%s' % (server, port)

@task(start_server) #Depends on task with all optional params
def stop_server():
    print 'Stopping server....'

@task()
def copy_file(src, dest):
    print 'Copying from %s to %s' % (src, dest)

@task()
def echo(*args,**kwargs):
    print args
    print kwargs
    
# Default task (if specified) is run when no task is specified in the command line
# make sure you define the variable __DEFAULT__ after the task is defined
# A good convention is to define it at the end of the module
# __DEFAULT__ is an optional member

__DEFAULT__=start_server
```

**Running navio-builder tasks**
-----------------------

The command line interface and help is automatically generated. Task descriptions
are extracted from function docstrings.

```bash
$ nb -h
usage: nb [-h] [-l] [-v] [-f file] [task [task ...]]

positional arguments:
  task                  perform specified task and all its dependencies

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -l, --list-tasks      List the tasks
  -v, --version         Display the version information
  -f file, --file file  Build file to read the tasks from. Default is
                        'build.py'
```

```bash
$ nb -l
Tasks in build file ./build.py:
  clean                       Clean build directory.
  copy_file                   
  echo                        
  html                        Generate HTML.
  images           [Ignored]  Prepare images.
  start_server     [Default]  Start the server
  stop_server                 

Powered by navio-builder - A Lightweight Python Build Tool.
```
          
navio-builder takes care of dependencies between tasks. In the following case start_server depends on clean, html and image generation (image task is ignored).

```bash
$ nb #Runs the default task start_server. It does exactly what "nb start_server" would do.
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "html" ]
Generating HTML in directory "."
[ example.py - Completed task "html" ]
[ example.py - Ignoring task "images" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "start_server" ]
Starting server at localhost:80
[ example.py - Completed task "start_server" ]
```

The first few characters of the task name is enough to execute the task, as long as the partial name is unambigious. You can specify multiple tasks to run in the commandline. Again the dependencies are taken taken care of.

```bash
$ nb cle ht cl
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "html" ]
Generating HTML in directory "."
[ example.py - Completed task "html" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
```

The 'html' task dependency 'clean' is run only once. But clean can be explicitly run again later.

nb tasks can accept parameters from commandline.

```bash
$ nb "copy_file[/path/to/foo, path_to_bar]"
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "copy_file" ]
Copying from /path/to/foo to path_to_bar
[ example.py - Completed task "copy_file" ]
```

nb can also accept keyword arguments.

```bash
$ nb start[port=8888]
[ example.py - Starting task "clean" ]
Cleaning build directory...
[ example.py - Completed task "clean" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "html" ]
Generating HTML in directory "."
[ example.py - Completed task "html" ]
[ example.py - Ignoring task "images" ]
[ example.py - Starting task "start_server" ]
Starting server at localhost:8888
[ example.py - Completed task "start_server" ]
    
$ nb echo[hello,world,foo=bar,blah=123]
[ example.py - Starting task "echo" ]
('hello', 'world')
{'blah': '123', 'foo': 'bar'}
[ example.py - Completed task "echo" ]
```

**Organizing build scripts**
-----------------------------

You can break up your build files into modules and simple import them into your main build file.

```python
from deploy_tasks import *
from test_tasks import functional_tests, report_coverage
```

## Contributors/Contributing


* Raghunandan Rao - navio-builder is preceded by and forked from [pynt](https://github.com/rags/pynt), which was created by [Raghunandan Rao](https://github.com/rags/pynt).
* Calum J. Eadie - pynt is preceded by and forked from [microbuild](https://github.com/CalumJEadie/microbuild), which was created by [Calum J. Eadie](https://github.com/CalumJEadie).


If you want to make changes the repo is at https://github.com/naviotech/navio-builder. You will need [pytest](http://www.pytest.org) to run the tests

```bash
$ ./b t
```

It will be great if you can raise a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests) once you are done.

If you find any bugs or need new features please raise a ticket in the [issues section](https://github.com/naviotech/navio-builder/issues) of the github repo.
    
## License

navio-builder is licensed under a [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
